#COVID
For that research project, I conducted an analysis of COVID-19 sequences that were sourced from the GISAID database. Specifically, my focus was on data that pertained to the former Soviet Union countries. All of the necessary data had been obtained from GISAID, and I had implemented several filters such as geography, completeness, low coverage exclusion, and collection date completeness to ensure the quality and relevance of the data being used. Then phylogenetic trees, including a consensus tree, were constructed to derive further conclusions about the spread of this virus. The code from this notebook could be further adjusted to build a pipeline in .py file. This project used Biopython. This work showcased common work that I did in bioscience.

#HIV
I analyzed Sanger sequences of HIV infected patients in Kazakhstan, the file name is HIV_sanger_KZ.ipynb. The data was collected from the Republican Center for the Prevention and Control of AIDS. The samples were collected between 2017-2020. The notebook achieves the task of aligning sequences with subtype A6 along with mapping number of patients in each region of Kazakhstan. This information is useful to derive further actionable recommendations for health officials. This work showcased common work that I did in bioscience. This notebook uses a local MUSCLE program. It can be downloaded from https://github.com/rcedgar/muscle/releases/tag/5.1.0.


#Virtual PCR
I conducted a virtual PCR, the file name is Virtual PCR.ipynb. In this computational experiment, the aim was to verify the binding of forward and reverse primers to the target sequence. The primary objective was to identify the resulting DNA sequences and their corresponding base pair (bp) bands that would be generated in a PCR experiment. This virtual experiment was a crucial step towards performing a real experiment and assessing the availability of reagents. The experiment revealed that a PCR product necessary for HIV research, particularly for subtype A1 and A6 prevalent in Kazakhstan, can be consistently generated by pairing 3LTR with D, and 3LTR with 5LTR primers.
